now the Lord spoke to Moses speak to the
children of Israel and say to them when
a man consecrates by a vow certain
persons to the Lord according to your
valuation if your valuation is of a male
from 20 years old up to 60 years old
then your valuation shall be 50 shekels
of silver according to the shekel of the
century if it is a female then your
valuation shall be 30 shekels and if
from five years old up to 20 years old
then your valuation for a male shall be
20 shekels and for a female 10 shekels
and if from a month old up to five years
old then your valuation for a male shall
be five shekels of silver and for a
female your valuation shall be three
shekels of silver and if from 60 years
old and above if it is a male then your
valuation shall be fifteen shettles and
for a female tenured shekels but if he
is too poor to pay your valuation then
he shall present himself before the
priest and the priest shall set a value
for him according to the ability of him
who vowed the priest shall value him if
it is an animal that men may bring as an
offering to the Lord all that anyone
gives to the Lord shall be holy he shall
not substitute it or exchange it good
for bad or bad for good
and if he at all exchanges animal for
animal then both it and the one
exchanged for it shall be holy if it is
an unclean animal which they do not
offer as a sacrifice to the Lord then he
shall present the animal before the
priest and the priest shall set a value
for it whether it is good or bad as
you'll the priest value it so it shall
be but if he once at all to redeem it
then he must add one-fifth to your
valuation and when a man dedicates his
house to be a holy to the Lord
then the priest shall set a value for it
whether it is good or bad as the priest
values it so it shall stand
if he who dedicated it wants to redeem
his house then he must add 1/5 of the
money of your valuation to it and it
shall be his if a man dedicates to the
Lord part of a field of his position
then your valuation shall be according
to the seed for it a Homer of barley
seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of
silver if he dedicates his field from
the year of Jubilee according to your
valuation it shall stand but if he
dedicates his field after the Jubilee
then the priest shall reckon to him the
money do according to the years that
remain till the year of Jubilee and it
shall be deducted from your valuation
and if he who dedicates the field ever
wishes to redeem it
then he must add one-fifth of the money
of your valuation to it and it shall
belong to him but if he does not want to
redeem the field or if he has sold the
field to another man it shall not be
redeemed any more but the field when it
is released in the Jubilee shall be holy
to the Lord as a devoted field it shall
be the possession of the priest and if a
man dedicates to the Lord a field which
he has bought which is not the field of
his possession then the priest shall
reckon to him the worth of your
valuation up to the year of Jubilee and
he shall give your valuation on that day
as a holy offering to the Lord
in the year of Jubilee the field shall
return to him from whom it was bought to
the one who owned the land as a
possession and all your valuations shall
be according to the shekel of the
sanctuary 20 garre's to the shekel but
the firstborn of the animals which
should be the Lord's firstborn no man
shall dedicate whether it is an ox or
sheep it is the Lord's and if it is an
unclean animal then he shall redeem it
according to your valuation and shall
add one-fifth to it or if it is not
redeemed then it shall be sold according
to your valuation nevertheless no
devoted offering that a man may devote
to the Lord of all that he has both man
and beast or the field of his possession
shall be sold or redeemed every devoted
offering is most holy to the Lord no
person under the ban who may become
doomed to destruction among men shall be
redeemed but shall surely be put to
death and all the tithes of the land
whether of the seed of the land or of
the fruit of the tree is the Lord's it
is holy to the Lord if a man wants at
all to redeem any of his tithes he shall
add one-fifth to it and concerning the
tithe of the herd or the flock of
whatever passes under the rod the tenth
one shall be holy to
and he shall not inquire whether it is
good or bad nor shall he exchange it and
if he exchanges it at all then both it
and the one exchanged for it shall be
holy it shall not be redeemed these are
the commandments which the LORD
commanded Moses for the children of
Israel on Mount Sinai
[Music]
you